For some applications, having
and tracking metadata,
data provenance, and data
lineage can be a big help.
What do these words even mean?
Let's look at an example.
Here's a more complex
example of a data pipeline,
building on our previous
example of using
user records to
predict if someone
is looking for a job at
a given moment in time.
Let's say you start off
with a spam dataset.
This may include a list of
known spam accounts
as well as features
such as a list of
blacklisted IP addresses that
spammers are known to use.
You might also implement
a learning algorithm or
a piece of machine learning code
and train your
learning algorithm,
understand dataset, thus
giving you an anti-spam model.
These arrows indicate flow
of information or
flow of computation,
where training your ML code on
the spam dataset gives
you your anti-spam model.
You then take your user data
and apply the anti-spam model
to it to get the
disband user data.
We're following our usual
convention that things with
the purple rectangle around
it represent pieces of code.
Now, taking your
de-spammed user data.
Next, you may want to
carry out user ID merge.
To do that, you might start
off with some ID merged data.
This would be labeled data
telling you some pairs of
accounts that actually
correspond to the same person
have a machine learning
algorithm implementation,
train the model on that,
and this gives you a learned
ID merge model that tells you
when to combine two accounts
into a single user ID.
You take your ID merge model,
apply it to the
de-spammed user data.
This gives you your
cleaned up user data.
Then finally, based on
the clean user data,
hopefully, some of this labels
with whether someone's
looking for a job,
you'll then have another
machine learning model,
train on it to give
you a model to
predict if a given user is
looking for a job or not.
This is then used
to make predictions
on other users or maybe
across your whole
database of users.
This level of complexity
of a data pipeline is
not typical in large
commercial systems.
I've seen data pipelines
or data cascades that
are even far more
complicated than this.
One of the challenges of
working with data
pipelines like this is,
what if after running
this system for months,
you discover that, oops,
the IP address blacklists
you're using has
some mistakes in it.
In particular, what if you
discover that there was
some IP addresses that were
incorrectly blacklisted.
Maybe because the provider
from whom you had purchased
a blacklisted IP
addresses found out that
there were some IP addresses
that multiple users use,
such as multiple users on
a corporate campus or
university campus,
sharing IP address
for security reasons.
But the organization
creating the blacklist
IP address thought it
was spammy because
so many people shared
an IP address.
This has happened before.
The question is, having built
up this big complex system,
if you were to update
your spam dataset,
won't that change
your spam model,
and therefore that,
and therefore that.
How do you go back
and fix this problem?
Especially if each of
these systems was developed
by different engineers,
and you have files spread
across the laptops of
your machine learning
engineering development team.
To make sure your
system is maintainable,
especially when a piece of
data upstream ends up
needing to be changed,
it can be very
helpful to keep track
of data provenance
as well as lineage.
Data provenance refers to
where the data came from.
Who did you purchase the
spam IP address from?
Lineage refers to the sequence of
steps needed to get to
the end of the pipeline.
At the very least,
having extensive
documentation could
help you reconstruct data
provenance and lineage,
but to build robust,
maintainable systems, not in
the proof of concept stage,
but in the production stage.
There are more
sophisticated tools to help
you keep track of what
happens so that you
can change part of the system and
hopefully replicate the rest of
the data pipeline without
too much unnecessary complexity.
To be honest, the tools for
keeping track of
data provenance and
lineage are still immature
into this machine learning world.
I find that extensive
documentation can
help and some formal tools
like TensorFlow
Transform can also
help but solving this
type of problem is
still not something that we are
great at as a community yet.
To make life easier,
both for managing data
pipelines as well as
for error analysis and
driving machine
learning development,
there's one tip I want to share,
which is to make extensive
use of metadata.
Metadata is data about data.
For example, in manufacturing
visual inspection,
the data would be the pictures
of phones and the labels
but if you have
metadata that tells
you what time was this
picture of a phone taken,
what factory was
this picture from,
what's the line number,
what were the camera
settings such as
camera exposure time
and camera aperture,
what's the number of the
phone you're inspecting,
what's the ID of the inspector
that provided this label.
These are examples of data
about your dataset X and Y.
This type of metadata can
turn out to be really
useful because if you discover,
during machine
learning development,
that for some strange reason,
line number 17 in factory
2 generates images that
produce a lot more
errors for some reason.
Then this allows you
to go back to see what
was funny about line
17 and factory 2.
But if you had not stored
the factory in line number
metadata in the first place,
then it would have been
really difficult to
discover this during
error analysis.
I found many times
when I happened
to maybe get lucky and
store the right metadata,
only to discover a month
later that that metadata
helped generate a key insight
that helped the
project move forward.
My tip is if you have
a framework or a set
of MLOps tools for
storing metadata,
that will definitely make life
easier but even if you don't,
just like you rarely regret
commenting your code,
I think you will
really regret storing
metadata that could then
turn out to be useful later.
Just like if you don't comment
your code in a timely way,
it's much harder to go
back to comment it later.
In the same way,
if you don't store the
metadata in a timely way,
it can be much
harder to go back to
recapture and organize that data.
One more example for
speech recognition.
If you have audio recorded
from different brands
of smartphones,
let's say that in advance,
or if you have different
labelers labeling your speech,
or if you use a voice
activity detection model,
then just keep track of what was
their version number of
the voice activity detection
model that you use.
All of these means that
in case for some reason,
one version of the VAD,
voice activity detection system
results in much larger errors,
this significantly increases
the odds of you discovering
that and really use
that to improve your learning
algorithm performance.
To summarize, metadata can be
very useful for error
analysis and spotting
unexpected effects or tags
or categories of data
that have some unusually
poor performance
or something else,
to suggest how to
improve your system.
Of course, maybe
not surprisingly,
this type of metadata is
also very useful for keeping
track of where the data came
from or data provenance.
The takeaway from this
video is that for
large complex machine learning
systems that you might
need to maintain,
keeping track of
data provenance and
lineage can make your
life much easier.
As part of building
out the systems,
consider keeping
track of metadata,
which can help you with
tracking data provenance,
but also error analysis.
Before we wrap up this section,
there's just one more tip
I hope to share with you,
which is the importance of
balanced train dev-test splits.
Let's go on to the next video.